right let's take a look at some of the
day's other news now and Russian
President Vladimir Putin has made a rare
overseas trip he's in the United Arab
Emirates for the first leg of a trip
that includes talks with regional
leaders he's expected to visit Saudi
Arabia later on Wednesday and host
Iranian president Ibrahim REI back in
Moscow on Thursday Putin's been
bolstering his Partnerships with Gulf
Nations as Russia faces growing
isolation uh by the West well I'm joined
Now by
uh alzer's diplomatic editor James Bay
who's with me on set James well you can
tell us more about the visit but it's
it's one of the few places he can go to
isn't it yeah I mean remember there's
that arrest warrant for um for
transferring Ukrainian children from the
international criminal court and so
there are many places that the Russian
president wouldn't feel safe to visit he
didn't feel safe to visit uh South
Africa last year when he was going to go
for the brics summit but these two
countries he's visiting UAE and Saudi
Arabia are not signatories to the Rome
statute and so this is a place that he
can go and he seems to be pretty
delighted that he's on the ground in Abu
Dhabi some of his statements talking
about um the um unprecedented high level
of relations between the UAE and Russia
right now saying that the UAE is the
main trading partner uh for Russia uh in
the Arab world well remember UAE is also
pretty close partner with the US so I'm
not sure how this will be seen in
Washington because clearly they would
like other nations to be imposing
sanctions on Russia and yet there's a
record number of tourists and a record
amount of trade going on between Russia
and UAE and he's then going on to meet
Iran's Ibrahim RI not in Teran though in
Moscow first a trip to Saudi Arabia um
which is important because I think the
other part of this is OPEC and OPEC plus
and oil and Saudi and Russia have been
working very very uh close closely
together where some other members of the
OPEC plus grouping um do not have the
same view but they've been trying to
restrict the oil's Supply to keep the
price high it's certainly something that
Russia wants and Saudi Arabia uh wants
at this stage but yes you're right then
he goes um from Riyad back to Moscow uh
to see uh the Iranian president which is
somewhat odd because he could have just
flown to Tran they've obviously decided
he didn't want to go for to tan for some
reason or other but important
uh discussions there um because as you
know Western Nations accuse Iran of
directly supplying missiles and weapons
to Russia for its War uh in Ukraine and
of course also important given Iran's
position um with the with the war on
Gaza which will be I think an important
subject of discussions in Abu Dhabi in
Riyad and then in mosow when he meets
the Iranian president to to what extent
James is this an effort uh on the part
of the Russians to sort of reconstitute
Ute their foreign policy their diplomacy
in the Middle East and be part of what
happens next here oh I think I think
it's definitely the president of Russia
trying to prove that he is an
international player and um you could
only look at the war on Gaza despite the
devastation for the people of Gaza and
the bombardment in Gaza as a good thing
for Russia in terms of Rehabilitation
diplomatically um they can talk about
that war they can talk about the US what
they say is double standards uh by the
US and they have long-standing role in
the Middle East they're not the main
player but they're part of that group
the quartet that everyone forgot about
um and so Russia says it wants to play a
role and a much bigger role
internationally James Bas diplomatic
editor thank you so much